# Steps of event storming


Step 1. Invite the right people
---------------------------------

Unlike traditional modelling processes that often rely on a small group
(an individual developer) to map out data, behaviour, and objects, event storming
depends on a larger group (at least six to eight people) to workshop the
domain model together.

For event storming to be successful, you need the right people to participate.

Who are the right people?

* people who know the right questions to ask
* people who have the answers.

This group will likely be a mixture of stakeholders representing user experience, business, architecture, development, and IT.

Step 2. Provide unlimited modelling space
---------------------------------


The goal is to get on paper (usually color-coded sticky notes) each significant event and process in one big map. To do this, you will need a large modelling space that allows your team to continue building on the process as questions and ideas arise without being limited in scope by the physical workspace.

Traditionally, this approach has been applied with sticky notes on a wall.

By focusing on the task at hand, stakeholders can work out the processes without getting bogged down in complicated language and complex mapping structures.

Step 3. Explore the business domain
---------------------------------

Now for the meat-and-potatoes part of the workshop. Together the group explores the business domain to unveil a comprehensive process. There are three main components of the event storming model: domain events, commands, and aggregates.

## Identify domain events

The first step is to begin identifying events. Events are “things that happen” in a process or system. Important events trigger reactions, so understanding the causal event can help you understand how the system operates and why. Keep in mind that events are always noted in the past tense.

To mark an event on your timeline, use an orange sticky note (or whatever colour code you’ve agreed on)


## Connect domain events to commands

With your events outlined, you can begin to evaluate each event for its causes and consequences. In other words, ask yourself what triggered this event (e.g., users, other events, or external systems).

The trigger or cause of the event is noted as a command. Commands are traditionally documented on blue sticky notes in the present tense and often represent user interactions with the system (e.g., “Submit a purchase order”).


## Connect events to reactions


The other side of the event process is what happens as a result of the event. These are called reactions.

Reactions are the necessary actions or results following an event and are noted in the present tense. For example, an event-reaction process flow might state, “When a new account is created, we will send a confirmation email.”

Together, commands, reactions, and events will successfully map out the complete cause-and-effect processes of the system.